suppose you like to decide what degree
of polynomial to fit to a data set some
of what features to include to gives you
a learning algorithm or suppose you'd
like to choose the regularization
parameter lambda for learning algorithm
how do you do that these are called
model selection problems and in our
discussion of how to do this we'll talk
about not just how to split your data
into a training test set but how to
switch a data into what we'll discover
is called the train validation and test
sets we'll see in this video just what
these things are and how to use them to
do model selection we've already seen a
lot of times the problem of overfitting
in which just because the learning
algorithm fits a training set well that
doesn't mean is a good hypothesis more
generally this is why the training set
error is not a good predictor for how
well the hypothesis will do on new
examples concretely if you fit some set
of parameters theta0 theta1 theta2 and
so on to your training set then the fact
that your hypothesis does well on the
training set well this doesn't mean much
in terms of predicting how well your
hypothesis will generalize to new
examples not seen in the training set
and the more general principle is that
once your parameters will fit to some
set of data
maybe the trainings that may be
something else then the error of your
hypothesis as measured on that same data
set such as the training error that's
unlikely that's unlikely to be a good
estimate of your actual generalization
error that is of how well the hypothesis
will generalize to new examples
now let's consider the model selection
problem let's say you're trying to
choose what degree polynomial to fit to
data to choose a linear function a
quadratic function a cubic function all
the way up to a tenth order polynomial
so it's as if that's one extra parameter
in this algorithm which I'm going to
denote D which is what degree of
polynomial do you want to pick so as as
if does this a in addition to the theta
parameters is as if there's one more
parameter D that you're trying to
determine using your data set so the
first option is D equals one if you fit
a linear function we can choose T equals
two equals three all the way up to D
equals ten so we'd like to fit this
extra so the parameter at which I'm
denoting by D and concretely let's say
that you want to choose a model that is
choose a degree of polynomial choose one
of these ten models and fit that model
and also get some estimate of how well
your fitted hypothesis will generalize
to new examples
here's one thing you could do what you
could first take your first model and
minimize the training error and this
would give you some parameter vector
theta and you could then take your
second model the quadratic function and
fit that to your training set and this
will give you some other parameter
vector theta in order to distinguish
between these different parameter
vectors I'm going to use the superscript
1 superscript 2 there where theta a
superscript 1 just means the parameters
I get by fitting this model to my
training data and theta superscript 2
just means the parameters I get by
fitting this quadratic function to my
training data and so on then by fitting
a cubic model I get parameters theta 3
up to you know say theta 10
and one thing you could do is then take
these parameters and look at the test
set error so I can compute on my test
set J test with one J test of theta two
and so on
J test of theta three and so on
so I'm going to take each of my
hypotheses with the corresponding
parameters and just measure the
performance on the test set now one
thing I could do then is in order to
select one of these models I could then
see which model has the lowest test set
error and let's just say for this
example that I ended up choosing the
fifth order polynomial so this seems
reasonable so far but now let's say I
want to take my fit to hypothesis this
is a fifth order model and let's say I
want to ask how well does this model
generalize one thing I could do is look
at how well my fifth order polynomial
hypothesis had done on my test set but
the problem is this will not be a fair
estimate of how well my hypothesis
generalizes and the reason is what we've
done is we fit this extra parameter D
that is this degree of polynomial and
we'll fit that parameter D using the
test set namely we chose the value of D
they gave us the best possible
performance on the test set and so the
performance of my parameter vector theta
five on the test set that's likely to be
an overly optimistic estimate of
generalization error right so because I
have fit this parameter D to my test set
it is no longer fair to evaluate my
hypothesis on this test sentence because
I fit my parameters to the test set I've
chosen the degree D of polynomial using
the test set and so my hypothesis is
likely to do better on this test set
than it would on new age
apples that hasn't seen before and the
switches which is where I really care
about so just to reiterate on the
previous slide we saw that if we fit
some set of parameters you know say
theta 0 theta 1 and so on to some
training set then the performance of the
fitted model on the training set is not
predictive of how well the hypothesis
will generalize to new examples is
because these parameters will fit to the
training set so they're likely to do
well on the training set even if the
parameters don't do well on other
examples and in the procedure I just
described on the slide we just did the
same thing and specifically what we did
was we fit this parameter D to the test
set and by having fit the parameter the
test set this means that the performance
of the hypothesis on that test set may
not be a fair estimate of how well the
hypothesis is likely to do on examples
we haven't seen the form to address this
problem in a model selection setting if
we want to evaluate the hypothesis this
is what we usually do instead given the
data set instead of just putting it into
a training test set what we're going to
do is instead split it into three pieces
and the first piece is going to be
called the training set as usual so let
me call this first part the training set
and then we're going to toggle the
second piece of data which is called the
cross-validation set
and I'm going to abbreviate
cross-validation CV and the second piece
of this data I'm going to call the cross
validation set cross validation and I'm
going to abbreviate cross validation at
CVS sometimes it's also called the
validation sets instead of cross
validation set and then the last problem
I'm going to call my usual test set and
a pretty pretty typical ratio in which
to split these things would be to send
60% of your data to your training set
maybe 20% to your cross-validation set
and 20% to your test set these numbers
can vary a little bit but this sort of
Asian pretty typical and so our training
sets will now be only maybe 60% of the
data and our cross-validation set or a
validation set will have some number of
examples I'm going to denote that M
subscript CV so that's the number of
Trance validation examples and that's
following our earlier notation
convention I'm going to use X I CD comma
Y I CV following our earlier notation of
Y I see V to denote the I cross
validation example and finally we also
have a test set over here with M
subscript s being the number of test
examples so now that we've defined the
training validation or cross validation
and test sets we can also define the
training error cross validation error
and test error so here's my training
error and I'm just writing this as J
subscript train of data this is pretty
much the same things usually the same
thing as the J of theta that you're
writing so far this is just a training
set error new as measured on your
training set and then J subscript CV is
my cross validation error it's pretty
much what you'd expect just like the
training error except measured on
validation data set and here's my test
set error same as before so when faced
with a multiple selection problem like
this what we're going to do is instead
of using the test set to select the
model where is there going to use the
validation set or the cross-validation
set to set the model concretely we're
going to first take our first hypothesis
take this first model and say minimize
the cost function and this will give me
some parameter vector theta for the
linear model and as before but for the
superscript one just to denote that this
is the parameter for the linear model we
do the same thing for the quadratic
model get some parameter vector theta to
get some print parameter vector theta
three and so on down to say the tenth
order polynomial and what I'm going to
do is instead of testing these
hypotheses on the test set I'm instead
going to test them on the
cross-validation set when I measure J
subscript CV to see how well each of
these hypotheses do on my cross
validation set
and then I'm going to pick the
hypothesis with the lowest class
validation error so for this example
let's say for the sake of argument that
it was my fourth order polynomial that
had the lowest cross-validation error so
in that case I'm going to pick this
fourth order polynomial model and
finally what this means is that that
parameter D remember D was the degree of
polynomial right so V equals to D equals
3 up to D equals 10 what we've done is
we fit that parameter D with set D
equals 4 and we did so using the
cross-validation set and so this degree
of polynomial so the parameter is no
longer fit to the test set and so we've
now saved away the test set and we can
use the test set to measure or to
estimate the generalization error of the
model that was selected by this
algorithm
so that was model selection and how you
can take your data is split into a
training validation and test set and use
your cross-validation data to select a
model and evaluate it on the test set
one final note on I should say that in
the machine learning as in this practice
today there are many people that will do
that
earlier thing that I talked about and
said that you know isn't such a good
idea of selecting your model using the
test set and then using the same test
set to report the error as though
selecting your degree of polynomial on
the test set and then reporting the
error on the test set as though that
were a good estimate of generalization
error that's how the practice is
unfortunately maybe many people do do it
if you have a massive massive test set
this may be not a terrible thing to do
but many practitioners most
practitioners of machine learning tend
to advise against that and this because
the better practice they have separate
train validation and test sets will just
warn you that sometimes people do you
know use the same data for the purpose
of the validation set and for the
purpose of test sets you only have a
training set and the test set that's
because there's good practice but you
will see if some people do it but if
possible I would recommend against doing
that yourself